cool uh welcome to gui and in web
browsers
bi-weekly call for 11th of
is it august 2020 um
yeah so that's us um and probably
as always the first one item is me
giving an update on pinning services as
always
um so i won't be screen sharing i will
quickly just mention that pinning
service api spec been
has been stable for uh over a week
now i think we've addressed all the
feedback that we've got from pinning
services
especially from those who will
implement it
in the first batch and our partners who
will
land in this web ui interface that you
want to
ship at some point so no
breaking changes well no
big changes are planned uh there's one
open issue about
disambiguating those providers fields so
we got this concept of
provider hints which aims to
mitigate the problem of people behind
the retries
restrictive nuts or a strange network
topologies when
peers from the outside are not able to
connect to them
some people won't have a relay setup we
don't have a
um like relays are not that popular and
not enabled by default so
there will be some peers which are
behind nuts corporate nuts
and if that person wants to pin content
they will send the request
to the pinning service using this new
api and
the pinning service will probably not
have the data
behind the cid they want to pin so it
will try to find
providers over dht and bitswap and stuff
like that
and they may find them on dht but they
won't be able to connect to them due to
the network topology
so we got those provider hints in both a
pin object and pin status response
to facilitate situation when someone
wants to pin something they provide
known sources and then in the response
they get
a list of multi-others of pinning
service
nodes which the client can connect to
and that way pinning service has a
direct connection
to known source so that solves the
weird nut problem uh the problem is
we use providers in both pin object and
pin status object and there was proposal
to
disambiguate it so in the notes there's
a link to
straw polls so that's like a perfect
bike shot
if you care about how things are named
with the straw poll is open till
thursday and
will either open pr or not open pr
depending on
the results uh so that's my announcement
um and the next item on the agenda
is changes uh to web ui
so we will have a new web ui release at
some point
but we had some nice
redoings of welcome screen connectivity
area pages
i think jessica do you want to talk
about this yeah
uh i can share my screen
maybe
you all disappeared so that indicates i
am successfully sharing my screen
can you see that yes okay good
all right so not a whole whole lot
visually has changed since the
last set of revisions that actually
instituted most of these visual changes
but you will note um
that if i disconnect
oh come on oh
give me a sec my
i had paused to uh anyway once you
disconnect it no longer shows you
the welcome information boxes um
ah crap this is the worst demo ever
was not the last thing in my buffer so
um
i just like i hit up in her and then
just like something completely random
happened
which was not what you wanted all right
so um idea being that there we go all
right so if you cannot connect to the
ipfs api
um notice that the welcome information
that was like what is ipfs that appeared
below
no longer appears there those three
items
are themselves um components that the
main components directory um so it's
totally modular which means in the case
of
say and you have to sort of kit-bash
this to
make it work but so say i'm connecting
right so i'm connected to ipfs
i'm in my status page and then i
disconnect you get this entire guidance
here
again um including the
api reset um
the api config here um there are
also a couple of nice things um the
status page
will i'll take this back up uh the
if you click on it you know if you're
like anywhere you're in files and you
click on the up down here it'll take you
straight to the status and it'll have
all of the advanced
stuff expanded which then you can
also go to the api config edit in the
settings itself so it's a lot more
intuitive
raphael fixed a little bit of a bug with
this not really expanding correctly
um i am about to attempt to fix
the issue that if you hit this edit it
should take you
all the way up to there um so that'll be
another improvement the other the only
open question on this
is uh whether surrey now the the right
now the status screen is the only one if
you disconnect suddenly
that will within a reasonable amount of
time throw you an error message um
the other ones if you are
if you're connected and then you drop
your connection like i'm in files right
and i stop it can be a very very very
long time basically um
just waiting for me to have to have to
refresh or go to another page before you
actually get that information
so the open question on this issue
is whether we it would be
as i understand it nice but not totally
critical to have better detection
and refresh on loss of connection so
that every page behaves a little bit
more closely like that status page if
you if you lose your connection
um sounds like that is good
yeah sorry sorry i have a suggestion
just making this
like status page come up connect as a
component as it
already is and being an overlay
over on top of everything so it's a
thought
that works for every page in every
context and
it the result is the same on the status
page as you cannot see what's
below it yeah it doesn't also fix the
bandwidth over time
showing up and stuff like that yeah yeah
yeah um because right now it is a
component
um an overlay would be a good way to do
it because like you absolutely cannot
ignore that that's a good that's a good
call
um the detection and refresh i would
need
somebody or the detection and addition
of the overlay i would need somebody
else to do unfortunately that's
a little bit outside of outside of my
abilities and then also
one open question how about
we just change
this text to read welcome to the future
of the internet you are now a valuable
part of the distributed web
as much as i feel like a revolutionary
maybe we should maybe we should tone
that down a little bit
sounds good okay anybody have any
objections of me just
thrown in in pr1577 and not not
opening an entire pr for dumbing down
the revolution text
yeah as a user there's so much
thing to look at i don't look at
anywhere you know what i mean
like there's so much text and yeah stuff
going on maybe
we can like uh make something more
obvious to the user like start using
files start
messing around here so the user can
learn well
that's the that's the content of the in
this app
you can box that has all of the
basically just
explanatory links to the status files
explore peer settings
so those are there but um
but yeah we we may want to talk about
addressing this page out a little bit
more heavily in the future
cool um i will i will
fix the um the internal link problem um
to take people down to
the api picker on settings and then i
will kick that over to you lytle if you
have time
to play with the detection logic um if
not we'll have something that we can at
least include in
2.11.
yep sounds good speaking about 211
let me share my screen pop up
can you see my screen
[Music]
yes cool uh yep
so um just sort of like a to get a
feeling of the land i created a
milestone for
211 and uh
because basically we wanted to like cut
this release this week
and then i realized like try to figure
it out what needs to
happen to avoid painful regressions
which will
make people open issues and then block
our precious time so i
created this milestone and included uh
open pr
by iraq lee which i
really will review today um
it's uh directly already rebased
um rebased refactored entire
web ui on top of
ipfs provider and the new api
which is asynch await and we already
included the welcome page which
most of it jessica showed so
we want to finalize those
messaging improvements which jessica
just showed
and what remains is basically a bunch of
issues which
are related to use cases when people are
connecting to a remote node so people
are not connecting to a localhost node
or not they are not loading web ui
from the api port they may be loading it
from the
gateway port they set up proper course
headers and they use
every either like localhost or
local network lan over vpn
please don't expose your api ports to
the internet
uh i assume those people have the basic
off or some other means of protecting
their api
but we got a bunch probably that's not
the full list i've added them to
the milestone but those like marked as
bag
and related to gateway port or
api port um everything is
like a bunch of those issues will
probably be closed by a single pr
where we uh refine the way
one how we find the api
when it's not found on the default port
or it's not
provided through like by user
through that input that we have in the
interface
uh the edge cases are when
api is on uh
catch all ip which is four zeros
uh that's problematic because web
browsers
interpret that as a local host um
they if you if web ui
assumes gateway port is at four zeros
um images embedded or
links to the gateway in web ui
will be interpreted by the web browser
by us
resource on the local machine instead of
that remote node that
a person connected to um so we need so
we need to uh create um
improved heuristic uh iraqi already
switched
web ui from from that
redux bundle to ipfs provider which
by default tries
if no api address is provided it will
try to access api on the current
origin if i remember correctly
it used to do that before too by the way
it's that logic didn't change
yeah yeah so uh that's the very basic
logic
which guaranteed that if a person
changed the default api port and
web ui was loaded from the gateway port
it would automatically work
because it tried
the same origin as the web ui itself was
loaded
so we probably need to improve that i'm
not sure
if it's in ipfs provider or it will be
in the user land in the web ui itself
uh to handle those additional use cases
where there
is either um
that catch all four zeroes
in go ipfs configuration and the user
loaded
uh web ui from one origin and we is
trying to access
uh api at the different origin uh but a
bunch of those
issues i'm sharing right now uh will be
closed if we
uh simplify that logic i also like
reopened one issue where
we in ipld explorer we have this link to
view on the ipfs gateway
um and it was like pointing at the local
house or something and we changed that
to point at the public gateway because
most of people will have ipvs companion
so assumption was
that will redirect to a local gateway
but the problem is like
there are folks which are not running
companion and there are use cases where
people
are using web ui and ipfs note in an
offline
mode so they are not connected to the
swarm
and that means the public gateway at
ipfsio
would not be able to load the content
they
had have locally uh that's why we cannot
rely on the public gateways in web ui
interfaces and we need to
introduce sort of like a characteristic
to find
the api port and find the gateway port
like the gateway origin from to be used
in our interfaces that's
like a long story but the gist here is
apart from the user interface
improvements and
performance improvements by directly we
have the only issue we have
is this use case where people are using
api port at a remote origin
and we need to tackle that before
cutting the release
because that would like introduce a
bunch of regressions
people seem to use web ui for they
switch between different
nodes or maybe they run it in a local
vpn or lan but that's something we need
to tackle before making a release
uh if you feel there's something that
we've missed and
should be added feel free to just like
add the issues to this
milestone so we don't miss it but those
related to api and gateway gateway ports
are effectively just one issue i i just
like
did not do a proper triage and did not
merge them
um can i make a note about the one of
the issues that are part of the
milestone so the buffering issue that is
to
not buffer files while we add them to
the ipfs
uh while there's a pull request it's
actually
awaiting on the js ipfs
released to be cut because uh some of
the changes that
fixes it on ipfs8 has not been released
in the previous version
so we need to wait for a version to
actually be able to take advantage of it
that means that we can land the change
and it just won't
fix it but once it is fixed and it will
be
what i'm trying to say i think it would
be nice if we can time it with js ipfs
release so we can take advantage of that
which i think should be sometimes okay
so it's like
within this and next week right
um i believe it should be this week but
yeah next is probably
one yeah i don't think it's like even if
it does not happen for some reason it's
it's not a problem i think the
the most important part was already
merged the the async refactor that
you've uh
did uh this switch to
um uh http client with performance
improvements
uh sort of like a maybe not deadline but
the the window that we want to
align it is when we merge uh the feature
branch with pinning services
um that sort of like uh
solved deadline uh for for those
improvements to land we want to
uh either land uh performance
improvements before or with that
so it's not a big problem if js ipfs did
not
like do not release on time we may cut a
release of web ui without that
and do that later but would be nice to
like
the sooner the better
cool that was me checking the agenda uh
we are at the end of the agenda so
last uh occasion to grow it
add your own items i will go quickly
over
highlights we've been
busy with a backlog of issues and other
stuff so
not very eventful week but
we've released new uh it's ipfs library
maybe i'll share my screen just so
people don't stare
at me people will stare at my notes
instead so is ipfs it's a very simple
library which is used by jsipfs and
bunch of other
stuff just to detect ipfs resources on
the web
and this is a major release because we
remove dependency of
nodes buffers and now we
are sort of like web native
in that that we don't introduce
dependency on any node specific types
so that really is landed
[Music]
and we had a bunch of deprecations so
one
of kid applications is
saying goodbye to ipfs redux bundle
which was used
only by ipfs web ui and i believe
ipfs explorer
websites
and maybe that proof of concept that we
had
at share ipfsio but that's about it
since then we've created a
framework agnostic ipfs provider so
ipfs 3x bundle makes a bunch of
assumptions and it's probably
most useful in in react and redux
environments ipfs provider is something
you can use
no matter which framework you choose and
it's more flexible
you can build arbitrary fallback
logic you are able to
lazy load either js ipfs the full node
or js ipfs http client
i believe a tidally wiki plugin
which supports ipfs is using ipfs
provider for
lazy loading and it's lazy learning http
client
um and more and more projects including
web ui uh is now depending on ipfs
provider so it's good we are dogfooding
that
and the second uh deprecation is not
really
done by us but uh alex from uh js ipfs
did that
but it's something that we use and we'll
probably have to remove
uh over time from our projects
and we had this uh split we had two
npm packages one was go ipfs which was
uh when it was globally installed it
provided you
with ipfs command on the command line
and it was just like go ipfs release
that you could install
over npm and you had a separate package
called
go ipfs dev which
which was used in a dependency context
so if your project was running tests
against ipfs but you did not want to
like install it doubly or something
uh that package included
go ipfs binary in your node modules
subdirectory
so alex unified
like he backported all the features from
goeiqfs depth namely
ability to find the path to the binary
and now that's
provided by the go ipfs package and that
means
go ipfs dab is deprecated
if you want to include go ipfs in your
project
use just go ipfs uh
use ipfs provider i don't believe
yeah redux bundle soon
soon or currently being deprecated and
go ipfs dev is also like duplicated
i believe we also duplicated them on npm
but it's worth mentioning
here in case someone is using them
right folks that's all my highlights
hopefully
in when we meet in the two weeks we'll
have
web ui release compiler release oh
desktop
release whatever we'll release a bunch
of stuff so stay tuned
um any last
second topics before we free up our
half an hour um i
i want to bring something up um
so i as i've been trying to refactor a
bunch of things i
keep running into things that i find
somewhat unclear
what's happening in web ui uh and i got
myself
into trying to refactor uh some of the
logics there
and i could use some help in trying to
check my assumptions whether what i
interpret
as my interpretations of things are
actually
correct um so
can you one of you please help me maybe
we can uh
schedule an hour or so so we can go
through everything
uh and try to make sure that it is the
case and if i shouldn't be doing that
that's also another thing maybe you
should tell me that stop doing this
yeah i honestly would like to have like
an
hour ideally with me raphael
you and maybe ollie or hack uh
and i'd like to like include them uh
because they were from the beginning of
the project and they may be more
familiar what
some decisions were made um if you are
able to schedule something this week or
uh or maybe later with most of us
i'm happy to join cool uh
yeah i'll schedule a meeting then uh or
i'll try i'm not sure
about people's availability i i might
have
it may not be this week because i want
to have a proposal at hand so i can
actually go through it and then i'll do
that yep sounds good
right folks i won't keep you around for
much longer
see you in two weeks thank you for
joining um
fingers crossed for all our real
upcoming
upcoming releases to go smoothly
see you in two
all mix